Create a VM instance from the Cloud Console
In this section, you'll learn how to create new, predefined machine types with Google Compute Engine from the Cloud Console.

In the GCP Console, on the top left of the screen, select Navigation menu > Compute Engine > VM instances:

cc9e3026f41f7b50.png

This may take a moment to initialize for the first time.

To create a new instance, click Create.

eee8fc21631bacd3.png

There are lots of parameters you can configure when creating a new instance. Use the following for this lab:

Field

Value

Additional Information

Name

vm1

Name for the VM instance

Region

us-east1

Learn more about regions in Regions & Zones documentation.

Zone

us-east1-b

Learn more about regions in Regions & Zones documentation.

Machine Type

n1-standard-1

Note: A new project has a default resource quota, which may limit the number of CPU cores. You can request more when you work on projects outside of this lab.

Boot Disk

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

Click on the change button, click on the OS images section then select Ubuntu 18.04 LTS. Learn more about boot disk check out this link.

Boot disk type

standard persistent disk

Learn more about standard persistent disk check out this link.

Firewall

allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic

Learn more about firewall check out this link.

Leave all the other configurations set to their defaults.

After entering the above parameters, click on the Create button to create your VM.

d341df6a049c430.png

SSH into vm1 by clicking on the SSH button, as shown in the image above.

Git clone
Use Git to clone the repository by using the following command:

git clone https://www.github.com/google/it-cert-automation-practice.git
Output:

output_clonw.png

File operation
Once you have the repository successfully cloned, navigate to the Lab3/directory.

cd ~/it-cert-automation-practice/Course5/Lab3
To list the files in the working directory Lab3/ use the list command.

ls
Output:

4550b17ad349eb37.png

In order to enable hello_cloud.py to run on boot, copy the file hello_cloud.py to the /usr/local/bin/ location.

sudo cp hello_cloud.py /usr/local/bin/
Also copy hello_cloud.service to the /etc/systemd/system/ location.

sudo cp hello_cloud.service /etc/systemd/system
Now, use the systemctl command to enable the service hello_cloud.

sudo systemctl enable hello_cloud.service
Restart the VM
After enabling the hello_cloud service, reboot the VM to ensure that the service is up. To reboot the VM instance vm1 go to the Compute Engine > VM instance and stop the VM instance vm1 by selecting the VM instance vm1 and clicking on the stop button at the top.

c2f90138ce8d0502.png

The start method restarts an instance in a TERMINATED state. To start the VM instance vm1, select it first by tick marking it, then click on the start button at the top. You can this in the image below.

a113d8c1e6f8c57.png

After restarting the VM instance vm1, visit the External IP link of the vm1 that's shown in the image below:

b8b253f28bec3850.png

Output:

f91ec09cf705d62f.png

Create VMs using a template
You'll now create a template for vm1.

First, shut down the VM instance vm1 by going to the Compute Engine > VM instance, selecting the VM instance vm1, and clicking on the stop button at the top.

Now, create an image named vm-image based on the vm1 disk by following the steps below:

In the GCP Console, on the top left of the screen, select Navigation menu > Compute Engine > Images:

9b40fe5b82e5eab0.png

Click on the CREATE IMAGE button below.

20786877379305cb.png

Then, create an image based on the vm1's disk, using the following parameters:

Field

Value

Name

vm-image

Source

Disk

Source Disk

vm1

Leave all of the other values set to their default settings. Click on the create button to create your image.

ec769bfa09b20b09.png

Now, create an instance template using vm-image for the boot disk you just created.

To create a instance template, follow the instructions below:

In the GCP Console, on the top left of the screen, select Navigation menu > Compute Engine > Instance templates:

92dd009e4768ccd0.png

Now, click on Create instance template to create a new template.

There are lots of parameters that you can configure when creating a new instance. Use the following for this lab:

Field

Value

Additional information

Name

vm1-template

Name for the VM instance template

Machine Type

n1-standard-1

Note: A new project has a default resource quota, which may limit the number of CPU cores. You can request more when you work on projects outside of this lab.

Boot Disk

vm-image

Click on the change button, click on the custom images section. Now, select vm-image by selecting the project you are working on.

Boot disk type

standard persistent disk

Learn more about standard persistent disk check out this link.

Firewall

allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic

Learn more about firewall check out this link.

Leave the rest of the values set to their default settings. Click on the create button to create the instance template vm1-template.

b8c93fa07d239079.png

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Create an instance template

Now, you'll create new VM instances with the template named vm1-template from your local computer using gcloud command-line interface. To do this, return back to the command line interface on your local computer, and enter the following command:

gcloud compute instances create --zone us-west1-b --source-instance-template vm1-template vm2 vm3 vm4 vm5 vm6 vm7 vm8
Wait for the command to finish. Once it's done, you can view the instances through the Console or by using the following gcloud command on your local terminal:

gcloud compute instances list
Now, open the external links for vm2 and vm8 to check if all the configuration set up properly as vm1.

Output:

ec54802a55124f88.png

e9aaa2636fed19aa.png

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Create instances using the template

Congratulations!
Nice work! You've successfully deployed eight VMs as web servers, each with the same configuration.

End your lab